RECONCILIATION FLOW
CONTROL
Thesis
Submitted in partial fulfilment of the requirements for the degree of
MASTER OF COMPUTER APPLICATIONS
by
UTKARSH AGARWAL (2140046)
DEPARTMENT OF MATHEMATICAL AND COMPUTATIONAL SCIENCES
NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY KARNATAKA SURATHKAL, MANGALORE - 575025
JUNE, 2024
 
 DECLARATION
I hereby declare that the Report of the P.G. Project work entitled “RECONCILIATION
FLOW CONTROL”, which is being submitted to the National Institute of Technology
Karnataka Surathkal, in partial fulfillment of the requirements for the award of the Degree of
Master of Computer Applications in the Department of Mathematical and Computational
Sciences, is a bonafide report of the work carried out by me. The material contained in this
Report has not been submitted to any University or Institution for the award of any degree.
Department of Mathematical and Computational Sciences Place: NITK, SURATHKAL
Date: 03-June-2024
i
UTKARSH AGARWAL (214CAO61)

 CERTIFICATE
This is to certify that the P.G. Project Work Report entitled “RECONCILIATION FLOW CONTROL” submitted by UTKARSH AGARWAL (214CA061) as the record of the work carried out by him, is accepted as the P.G. Project Work Report submission in partial fulfilment of the requirements for the award of degree of Master of Computer Applications in the Department of Mathematical and Computational Sciences.
Mr. ANISH KURIAN
(External Project Guide) Senior Engineering Manager, Zeta,
Bengaluru, India
Dr. VIVEK SINHA
(Internal Project Guide) Assistant Professor, Department of MACS NITK, Surathkal Karnataka, India
Chairman – DPGC
ii

ACKNOWLEDGEMENT
The satisfaction that is generated by the successful completion of a task would remain unfulfilled without mentioning people who have encouraged and guided me at every step towards the completion of the task. Starting with, I would like to extend my sincere thanks to my guide in the company, Mr. Anish Kurian, Senior Engineering Manager at Zeta, for giving me the opportunity to work under him. This opportunity gave me a chance to sharpen my working methodology to a higher extent and to solve the prob- lems in a better and easy way, so that it can be presented in a better and understandable manner. My heartfelt gratitude also goes to Professor Dr. P. Sam Johnson, Head of the Department, Department of Mathematical and Computational Sciences, National Institute of Technology Karnataka, Surathkal, for providing me with the opportunity to avail the excellent facilities and infrastructure of the institute.
I would also like to thank my mentor, Assistant Professor Dr. Vivek Sinha, Depart- ment of Mathematical and Computational Sciences, National Institute of Technology Karnataka, Surathkal, for his continuous guidance and support. The knowledge and values inculcated have proved to be of immense help.
I am very thankful to Zeta, for giving me the opportunity to work under their experi- enced team. This would never be complete without thanking my parents and my family for their constant support and encouragement and of course my friends and teammates for helping me throughout the process.
UTKARSH AGARWAL 2140046CA0061
iii

ABSTRACT
This thesis explores the development and optimization of a high-traffic API system for financial transactions, focusing on enhancing performance, scalability, and reliability. The project began with an extensive Knowledge Acquisition phase, aimed at under- standing domain-specific challenges and relevant technologies such as Kafka, Spring Boot, Grafana, Kibana, and Jenkins. This foundational knowledge was crucial for in- formed decision-making and successful implementation.
The core of the project involved backend development, where key activities included setup and configuration, database design, API development, business logic implemen- tation, and rigorous testing. Security measures were implemented using Spring Secu- rity to ensure robust authentication and authorization. Integration testing and the use of Retrofit for external API communication ensured seamless interaction between backend components, enhancing overall system reliability.
Deployment and documentation were meticulously planned, utilizing CI/CD pipelines, Kubernetes, and AWS for scalable and reliable environments. Comprehensive docu- mentation was provided to support users and administrators. The project concluded with a systematic bug-fixing process and continuous monitoring, ensuring long-term stability and performance. This project demonstrates the effectiveness of a collaborative and iterative approach in optimizing high-traffic API systems, laying a solid foundation for future advancements.
KEYWORDS
Backend Development, Java, Spring Boot, PostgreSQL, RESTful API, Kafka, Event Streaming, Asynchronous Processing, Performance Optimization, Continuous Integra- tion and Deployment.
iv

CONTENTS
1 Introduction 1
1.1 AbouttheOrganization.......................... 1
1.2 SoftwareDevelopmentMethodology .................. 2
1.2.1 AgileDevelopmentMethodology ................ 2
1.2.2 ScrumFramework ........................ 2
1.2.3 IterativeDevelopment ...................... 3
1.2.4 ContinuousIntegrationandDeployment . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3
1.3 ProductOverview............................. 4 1.3.1 FeaturesandFunctionalities ................... 4 1.3.2 BenefitsofUsingPayZapp.................... 4 1.3.3 TargetAudience ......................... 5 1.3.4 OverallStrategy ......................... 5 1.3.5 Availability............................ 5 1.3.6 AdditionalPointstoConsider .................. 6
2 Tools & Technologies Used 7
2.1 Java:TheCoreProgrammingLanguage ................. 7
2.2 Spring:ARobustDevelopmentFramework . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7
2.3 SpringBoot:RapidApplicationDevelopment . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8
2.4 PostgreSQL:AReliableDatabaseSolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9
2.5 Jenkins:ContinuousIntegrationandDelivery . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9
2.6 Kafka:Real-timeDataStreaming .................... 10
2.7 Kubernetes: Container Orchestration Platform . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10
2.7.1 KeyFeaturesofKubernetes ................... 10
2.7.2 UseCasesinPayZapp ...................... 11
2.8 Redis: A High-Performance In-Memory Data Store . . . . . . . . . . . 12 2.8.1 KeyFeaturesofRedis ...................... 12 2.8.2 UseCasesinPayZapp ...................... 12
2.9 Kibana:DataVisualizationandExploration . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13
v

2.10 Elasticsearch: Distributed Search and Analytics Engine . . . . . . . . . 13 2.10.1 KeyFeaturesofElasticsearch .................. 14 2.10.2 UseCasesinPayZapp ...................... 14
2.11Grafana:MonitoringandAlerting .................... 15 2.12Git..................................... 15 2.12.1 KeyConcepts........................... 16 2.12.2 BasicWorkflow.......................... 16
3 Implementation 18
3.1 ProblemStatement ............................ 18
3.2 KnowledgeAcquisition.......................... 19 3.2.1 UnderstandingtheDomain.................... 19 3.2.2 ExploringTechnologies ..................... 19 3.2.3 LearningCurvesandSkillDevelopment . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20
3.3 CollaborationandKnowledgeSharing.................. 21 3.3.1 PrototypingandProofofConcepts. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21 3.3.2 DefiningScopeandObjectives.................. 21 3.3.3 DesigningMockupsandWireframes. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 22
3.4 Solution.................................. 22
3.5 BackendDevelopment .......................... 24 3.5.1 SetupandConfiguration ..................... 24 3.5.2 DatabaseDesignandModeling ................. 24 3.5.3 APIDevelopment......................... 24 3.5.4 BusinessLogicImplementation ................. 25 3.5.5 AuthenticationandAuthorization ................ 25 3.5.6 TestingandDebugging...................... 25 3.5.7 DeploymentandScalability ................... 25 3.5.8 FileProcessingSystemConfiguration . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 26
3.6 IntegrationandTesting .......................... 26 3.6.1 IntegrationofBackendComponents . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 26 3.6.2 UnitTesting............................ 27 3.6.3 IntegrationTesting ........................ 27 3.6.4 PerformanceTesting ....................... 27 3.6.5 UserAcceptanceTesting(UAT) ................. 29
3.7 DeploymentandDocumentation ..................... 31 3.7.1 DeploymentProcess ....................... 31 3.7.2 Documentation.......................... 32
vi

3.8 BugFixes................................. 33 3.8.1 BugIdentificationandPrioritization . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 34 3.8.2 RootCauseAnalysis ....................... 34 3.8.3 FixImplementation........................ 34 3.8.4 TestingandValidation ...................... 34 3.8.5 ReleaseandMonitoring ..................... 35
4 Conclusion BIBLIOGRAPHY
36 37
vii

CHAPTER 1 INTRODUCTION
This project has been undertaken at Zeta Suites (Better World Technology) and is ori- ented to cover my final semester project requirements. The documents aim to give an overview of the technical project executed during my internship. Subsequent chapters will help in understanding the problem statement and the work done in the project.
1.1 ABOUT THE ORGANIZATION
Zeta is a next-gen banking tech company founded in 2015 by Bhavin Turakhia and Ramki Gaddipati. The company provides credit and debit card issuer processing, BNPL, core banking, and mobile experiences. Zeta’s products are offered to banks and fintechs.
The company was founded in April 2015 by Bhavin Turakhia and Ramki Gaddipati. Initially, Zeta’s offerings included employee tax benefits, automated cafeterias, em- ployee gifting, and digital payments. In 2016, Bhavin Turakhia invested around $19 million into Zeta. Initially, Zeta payments were only supported by the MasterCard net- work, but later the company also partnered with the National Payments Corporation of India’s RuPay.
In June 2017, the company invested 5-10 crore to buy a minority stake in an HR com- pany called ZingHR. Zeta has partnerships with IDFC Bank, Sodexo, Excelity Global, Kotak Mahindra Bank, and RBL Bank. Zeta launched the first employee benefits sur- vey in India along with Nielsen Holdings in April 2018. It also bought a minority stake in PeopleStrong in January 2018.
In 2019, Zeta received an investment from Sodexo BRS at a valuation of $300 mil- lion. In 2020, Zeta launched its technology platform-as-a-service in the Philippines and Vietnam, with Sodexo being its first client in these countries. In 2021, Zeta secured a Series C investment of $250 million from SoftBank Vision Fund 2, valuing Zeta at $1.45 billion. This is one of the largest single investments in a banking tech startup globally.
1

The focus at Zeta is on rethinking payments from core to the edge. From algorithms to form factors, applications to solutions, Zeta is led by the vision to make payments invis- ible and seamless. An Omni Stack has been built by Zeta for Financial Institutions (FIs) covering debit, credit, prepaid, loans, authentication, and Fraud and Risk Management (FRM).
1.2 SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT METHODOLOGY
The development of the web application, aimed at automating the creation of PayZapp, follows a systematic approach grounded in industry best practices and principles of agile software development. The methodology emphasizes collaboration, iterative de- velopment, and responsiveness to changing requirements, enabling the delivery of a high-quality solution that meets the needs of the stakeholders effectively.
1.2.1 Agile Development Methodology
An agile development methodology has been adopted to guide the project from incep- tion to delivery. Agile methodologies prioritize flexibility, adaptability, and customer collaboration, allowing quick responses to feedback and the delivery of incremental value with each iteration. By breaking down the project into manageable increments, or sprints, a steady pace of development can be maintained while continuously refining and enhancing the product.
1.2.2 Scrum Framework
Within the agile paradigm, the Scrum framework was employed to structure the de- velopment process and facilitate effective teamwork. Scrum promotes transparency, inspection, and adaptation through defined roles, ceremonies, and artifacts, ensuring clear communication and alignment among team members. Key components of the Scrum framework include:
• Sprint Planning: At the beginning of each sprint, the team collaboratively plans the work to be completed and commits to delivering a potentially shippable in- crement of functionality.
• DailyStand-ups:Dailystand-upmeetingsprovideanopportunityforteammem- bers to synchronize their activities, discuss progress, and identify any impedi- ments or blockers.
2

 Figure 1.1: Scrum Flow
• Mid Sprint Check: Ensuring the sprint goals are on track and identifying any blockers or adjustments needed.
• Sprint Review: At the end of each sprint, the team demonstrates the completed work to stakeholders and gathers feedback for future iterations.
• Sprint Retrospective: A retrospective meeting allows the team to reflect on the previous sprint, identify areas for improvement, and adjust their processes ac- cordingly.
1.2.3 Iterative Development
The project follows an iterative development approach, whereby functionality is in- crementally developed, tested, and refined over multiple cycles. This iterative pro- cess allows for gathering feedback early and often, validating assumptions, and making course corrections as needed. By delivering working software iteratively, risks associ- ated with large-scale development efforts are mitigated, ensuring that the final product aligns closely with user needs and expectations.
1.2.4 Continuous Integration and Deployment
To streamline the development and release processes, continuous integration and de- ployment practices have been implemented. Through automation and integration with
3

version control systems such as Git, automatic building, testing, and deployment of changes to the application are achieved in a consistent and reproducible manner. This enables frequent updates to be delivered to users with reduced risk and improved relia- bility.
1.3 PRODUCT OVERVIEW
PayZapp is a mobile wallet and online payment app offered by HDFC Bank in India. It acts as a versatile financial tool for users, enabling them to conduct a wide range of transactions conveniently and securely.
1.3.1 Features and Functionalities
• Payments: PayZapp eliminates the need to juggle multiple payment methods. Users can handle a variety of transactions directly through the app, including bill payments for mobile recharge, DTH subscriptions, and utilities. Online shop- ping becomes a breeze, and in-store purchases are simplified with QR code scans at partner merchants. PayZapp even allows for easy money transfers to other PayZapp users or any bank account in India, offering a one-stop shop for all fi- nancial needs.
• Wallet and UPI Integration: PayZapp functions as a prepaid wallet that can be loaded with funds for seamless transactions. Additionally, it integrates with the Unified Payments Interface (UPI) for instant money transfers and QR code-based payments.
• Travel and Entertainment Bookings: Users can book travel tickets (flights, trains, buses) and make hotel reservations directly through the app. Movie ticket bookings are also facilitated, and these bookings often come with cashback offers.
• Security: PayZapp prioritizes user safety with robust security features, including PIN and biometric authentication for logins, password protection for transactions, and no storage of card information on the user’s device.
1.3.2 Benefits of Using PayZapp
• Convenience: PayZapp simplifies financial management by offering a central-
ized platform for various transactions.
• Security: The app prioritizes user safety with advanced security measures.
4

• Potential for Cashbacks and Discounts: Users can benefit from cashback of- fers and discounts on transactions, including bill payments, shopping, and travel bookings.
1.3.3 Target Audience
PayZapp doesn’t limit itself to a single user group. It strategically targets a diverse range of individuals and businesses in India:
• Tech-Savvy Urbanites: Young, tech-comfortable Indians are a primary target. PayZapp’s features align perfectly with their preference for online shopping, dig- ital bill payments, and on-the-go convenience.
• Existing HDFC Bank Customers: As an HDFC Bank product, existing cus- tomers who trust and use the bank’s digital services are a natural fit. Familiarity with the brand fosters quicker adoption of PayZapp.
• Reaching the Unbanked: India has a significant population without traditional bank accounts. PayZapp addresses this by potentially functioning without a linked bank account. Features like virtual accounts from HDFC can help them participate in the digital payments revolution.
• Boosting Small Businesses: While a separate ”PayZapp for Business” service exists, the core app can still benefit small businesses. QR code payments allow them to receive payments from customers swiftly and conveniently.
1.3.4 Overall Strategy
This multi-pronged approach positions PayZapp to capture a significant share of the Indian mobile payments market. It caters to the growing tech-savvy population, offers financial inclusion to the unbanked, and provides solutions for small businesses.
1.3.5 Availability
The PayZapp app is readily available for download on the Google Play Store for An- droid devices and the Apple App Store for iOS devices.
5

1.3.6 Additional Points to Consider
• PayZapp for Business: HDFC Bank offers a separate service called ”PayZapp for Business” that allows businesses to receive payments from customers through the PayZapp platform.
6

CHAPTER 2 TOOLS & TECHNOLOGIES USED
The development of the web application involves the utilization of a variety of cutting- edge technologies and frameworks aimed at delivering a robust, scalable, and user- friendly solution. Each technology plays a crucial role in different aspects of the appli- cation, from backend development and data management to frontend design and user interaction. Below is an overview of the key technologies employed in the project:
2.1 JAVA: THE CORE PROGRAMMING LANGUAGE
Java forms the foundation of PayZapp’s development. It’s a general-purpose, object- oriented programming language renowned for its:
2.2
•
•
•
•
Platform Independence: ”Write once, run anywhere.” Java code can run on various operating systems without modifications, thanks to the Java Virtual Ma- chine (JVM). This simplifies development and deployment across diverse envi- ronments.
Object-OrientedDesign:Java’sobject-orientedparadigmpromotescodereusabil- ity, modularity, and maintainability. Complex functionalities can be encapsulated within objects, fostering efficient development and easier code management.
Strong Performance: Java offers efficient memory management and just-in-time (JIT) compilation, leading to optimized performance and smooth user experience.
LargeDeveloperCommunity:AvastandactiveJavadevelopercommunitypro- vides extensive resources, libraries, and frameworks, accelerating development and troubleshooting.
SPRING: A ROBUST DEVELOPMENT FRAMEWORK
Spring is a popular open-source framework for building enterprise Java applications. PayZapp utilizes Spring’s features to simplify development and streamline various as- pects of the application:
7

• Dependency Injection: Spring promotes loose coupling between components by managing dependencies through dependency injection. This improves code testability, maintainability, and flexibility.
• Aspect-Oriented Programming (AOP): Spring supports AOP, enabling devel- opers to implement cross-cutting concerns like logging, security, and transaction management without modifying core business logic.
• MVC (Model-View-Controller) Architecture: Spring encourages the separa- tion of concerns by following the MVC architecture. This promotes code organi- zation, easier maintenance, and better testability.
• Spring Security: Spring Security provides comprehensive security features to protect PayZapp from unauthorized access and vulnerabilities. Features like user authentication, authorization, and encryption ensure a secure environment for fi- nancial transactions.
By leveraging Spring’s robust framework, PayZapp benefits from efficient develop- ment processes, improved code organization, and enhanced security measures.
2.3 SPRING BOOT: RAPID APPLICATION DEVELOPMENT
Spring Boot is a lightweight framework built on top of Spring that simplifies application development and deployment. PayZapp utilizes Spring Boot for its:
• Auto-configuration: Spring Boot eliminates the need for extensive XML con- figuration files. It automatically configures many common dependencies and fea- tures, streamlining the development process.
• Embedded Server: Spring Boot applications can embed a server like Tomcat or Undertow within the application itself. This eliminates the need for a separate server installation, making deployment easier.
• Starter Projects: Spring Boot offers pre-configured starter projects for various functionalities like web development, data access, and security. These pre-built modules accelerate development by providing a foundation for common require- ments.
Spring Boot’s approach allows PayZapp to achieve faster development cycles, sim- pler deployments, and easier management of application dependencies.
8

2.4 POSTGRESQL: A RELIABLE DATABASE SOLUTION
PostgreSQL serves as the primary database management system for PayZapp. This powerful open-source database offers:
• ACID Transactions: PostgreSQL guarantees Atomicity, Consistency, Isolation, and Durability (ACID) for transactions, ensuring data integrity and consistency.
• Scalability: PostgreSQL can handle large datasets and high transaction volumes effectively, making it suitable for PayZapp’s potential growth.
• Object-Relational Features: PostgreSQL supports object-relational features, al- lowing developers to map database tables to Java objects seamlessly. This sim- plifies data access and manipulation.
• Open Source and Extensible: Being open-source, PostgreSQL provides cost- effective database management and allows for customization through extensions.
PayZapp leverages PostgreSQL’s reliability, scalability, and object-relational fea- tures to ensure secure and efficient storage and retrieval of user data and transaction information.
2.5 JENKINS: CONTINUOUS INTEGRATION AND DELIVERY
Jenkins is an open-source automation server widely used for continuous integration and delivery (CI/CD) pipelines. PayZapp likely utilizes Jenkins for:
• Automated Builds: Jenkins can automate the build process, including compiling code, running unit tests, and packaging the application.
• Continuous Integration: Jenkins facilitates continuous integration by automati- cally building and testing code changes upon every commit to the version control system.
• Delivery Pipelines: Jenkins allows for the creation of deployment pipelines that automate the process of deploying new versions of the application to different environments (development, testing, production).
Integrating Jenkins enables PayZapp to achieve faster development cycles, improved code quality, and efficient deployment workflows.
9

2.6 KAFKA: REAL-TIME DATA STREAMING
Apache Kafka is a distributed streaming platform that enables real-time data processing. PayZapp might leverage Kafka for:
• Microservices Communication: Kafka can act as a central hub for communica- tion between microservices within the PayZapp architecture. Microservices can publish and subscribe to relevant data streams through Kafka, facilitating efficient data exchange.
• Real-time Transaction Processing: Kafka allows for real-time processing of transaction data. This enables features like instant payment confirmations, fraud detection, and real-time analytics.
• Scalability and Fault Tolerance: Kafka is designed for scalability and fault tolerance. It can handle high volumes of data and recover from node failures, ensuring uninterrupted data flow.
By utilizing Kafka, PayZapp benefits from real-time data processing, efficient mi- croservice communication, and a robust infrastructure for handling high-volume data streams.
2.7 KUBERNETES: CONTAINER ORCHESTRATION PLATFORM
Kubernetes is an open-source container orchestration platform that automates the de- ployment, scaling, and management of containerized applications. PayZapp leverages Kubernetes to streamline its application deployment and management processes, ensur- ing scalability, reliability, and portability across various environments.
2.7.1
•
•
Key Features of Kubernetes
Container Orchestration: Kubernetes provides automated container orchestra- tion, allowing developers to deploy and manage containerized applications effi- ciently. It handles tasks such as scheduling, scaling, and load balancing, ensuring optimal resource utilization and application availability.
Service Discovery and Load Balancing: Kubernetes offers built-in service dis- covery and load balancing mechanisms, enabling seamless communication be- tween microservices and distributing traffic across multiple instances of an appli- cation for improved performance and reliability.
10

• Self-Healing Capabilities: Kubernetes monitors the health of applications and automatically restarts or replaces containers that fail. This self-healing capability helps maintain application availability and resilience in dynamic environments.
• Declarative Configuration: Kubernetes uses declarative configuration files to define the desired state of applications and infrastructure. This approach sim- plifies deployment and configuration management, making it easier to maintain consistency and repeatability.
• HorizontalScaling:Kubernetessupportshorizontalscalingofapplicationsbased on metrics such as CPU utilization or custom metrics. This enables applications to automatically scale up or down in response to changes in workload demand, ensuring efficient resource utilization and cost optimization.
2.7.2 Use Cases in PayZapp
In PayZapp, Kubernetes is employed for various purposes, including:
• MicroservicesDeployment:Kubernetesisusedtodeployandmanagemicroservices- based architectures, allowing PayZapp to break down monolithic applications
into smaller, more manageable components. This promotes agility, scalability,
and independent development and deployment of services.
• Continuous Delivery: Kubernetes facilitates continuous delivery practices by automating the deployment pipeline and providing features such as rolling up- dates and canary deployments. This enables PayZapp to deliver new features and updates to production quickly and reliably.
• Hybrid and Multi-Cloud Deployments: Kubernetes provides a consistent plat- form for deploying and managing applications across hybrid and multi-cloud en- vironments. PayZapp leverages Kubernetes to ensure portability and flexibility in its deployment strategies, enabling seamless migration and scaling across differ- ent cloud providers.
By leveraging Kubernetes, PayZapp enhances its ability to deploy, scale, and man- age containerized applications effectively, driving agility, reliability, and innovation in its technology stack.
11

2.8 REDIS: A HIGH-PERFORMANCE IN-MEMORY DATA STORE
Redis is a versatile and high-performance in-memory data structure store that serves multiple purposes, including caching, database, and message broker functionalities. PayZapp leverages Redis for various aspects of its application architecture due to its speed, simplicity, and flexibility.
2.8.1 Key Features of Redis
Redis offers several key features that make it an attractive choice for PayZapp’s infras- tructure:
• In-Memory Data Storage: Redis stores data primarily in RAM, allowing for extremely fast read and write operations. This makes it ideal for applications requiring low-latency data access.
• Support for Multiple Data Structures: Redis supports a wide range of data structures, including strings, lists, sets, hashes, and more. This versatility enables developers to model complex data requirements efficiently.
• Persistence Options: Redis provides different persistence options, including snapshotting and append-only file (AOF) persistence, to ensure data durability and fault tolerance.
• Pub/SubMessaging:Redisimplementsapublish/subscribemessagingparadigm, allowing components of PayZapp to communicate asynchronously. This feature is particularly useful for real-time updates and event-driven architectures.
• Built-in Replication: Redis supports master-slave replication, enabling data re- dundancy and high availability. This ensures that PayZapp remains operational even in the event of node failures.
2.8.2 Use Cases in PayZapp
PayZapp employs Redis for various purposes across its infrastructure:
• Caching: Redis acts as a caching layer to store frequently accessed data, such as user sessions, authentication tokens, and frequently queried database results. This reduces database load and improves application performance.
12

2.9
•
•
•
Session Management: Redis is used to manage user sessions, storing session data in memory for quick retrieval and updates. This ensures seamless user expe- riences across different parts of the application.
Queueing and Task Management: Redis’s list data structure is utilized as a lightweight message queue for asynchronous task processing. Background jobs, such as email notifications and data processing tasks, are queued and processed efficiently.
Real-Time Analytics: Redis’s pub/sub functionality enables real-time analytics by allowing components to subscribe to data streams and process incoming events in real-time. This capability is crucial for monitoring and analyzing user activities and system performance.
KIBANA: DATA VISUALIZATION AND EXPLORATION
Kibana is an open-source data visualization platform commonly used with Elastic- search, a search and analytics engine. While not directly interacting with data, PayZapp might integrate Kibana with Elasticsearch for:
• Log Analysis: Kibana allows for visualizing and analyzing application logs. This helps developers identify errors, track system performance, and troubleshoot is- sues effectively.
• Security Monitoring: Security logs and event data can be visualized in Kibana, enabling security teams to monitor for suspicious activity and potential threats.
• Real-time Dashboards: Kibana can create real-time dashboards that display key metrics and data visualizations. These dashboards provide insights into system health, transaction status, and user behavior.
By leveraging Kibana alongside Elasticsearch, PayZapp gains valuable tools for data exploration, log analysis, security monitoring, and real-time visualization of key metrics.
2.10 ELASTICSEARCH: DISTRIBUTED SEARCH AND ANALYTICS ENGINE
Elasticsearch is a distributed search and analytics engine designed for horizontal scal- ability, reliability, and real-time search capabilities. PayZapp utilizes Elasticsearch for various purposes within its application architecture, leveraging its powerful indexing
13

and querying capabilities to store, search, and analyze large volumes of structured and unstructured data efficiently.
2.10.1 Key Features of Elasticsearch
• Full-Text Search: Elasticsearch provides full-text search capabilities with sup- port for complex queries, relevance scoring, and linguistic analysis. This allows PayZapp to deliver fast and accurate search results across a wide range of data types.
• Distributed Architecture: Elasticsearch is built on a distributed architecture, allowing data to be distributed across multiple nodes for horizontal scalability and fault tolerance. This ensures high availability and performance, even with large datasets and high query volumes.
• Real-Time Data Ingestion: Elasticsearch supports real-time data ingestion, en- abling PayZapp to index and search data as soon as it becomes available. This is particularly useful for monitoring, log analysis, and real-time analytics applica- tions.
• Aggregation and Analytics: Elasticsearch offers powerful aggregation capabili- ties for performing analytics on indexed data, including metrics, histograms, and aggregations. This enables PayZapp to derive insights from its data and make data-driven decisions.
• Ecosystem Integration: Elasticsearch integrates seamlessly with other com- ponents of the Elastic Stack, including Kibana for visualization and analysis, Logstash for data collection and processing, and Beats for lightweight data ship- pers. This cohesive ecosystem provides a comprehensive solution for data man- agement and analytics.
2.10.2 Use Cases in PayZapp
In PayZapp, Elasticsearch is employed for various use cases, including:
• User Search and Personalization: Elasticsearch powers the user search func- tionality in PayZapp, allowing users to search for products, services, or other users quickly and accurately. Elasticsearch’s full-text search capabilities enable personalized search results based on user preferences and behavior.
14

• Log and Event Analysis: PayZapp utilizes Elasticsearch for log and event anal- ysis, indexing and analyzing logs generated by various components of its infras- tructure. Elasticsearch’s real-time indexing and querying capabilities enable rapid troubleshooting, monitoring, and analysis of system logs and events.
• Recommendation Engine: Elasticsearch is used to power recommendation en- gines in PayZapp, providing personalized recommendations to users based on their browsing history, purchase behavior, and demographic information. Elas- ticsearch’s aggregations and analytics capabilities facilitate the generation of rel- evant and timely recommendations.
By leveraging Elasticsearch, PayZapp enhances its search capabilities, accelerates data analysis, and delivers personalized experiences to its users, driving customer en- gagement and satisfaction.
2.11 GRAFANA: MONITORING AND ALERTING
Grafana is another open-source platform for data visualization and monitoring. PayZapp might utilize Grafana for:
• Real-time System Monitoring: Grafana allows for creating dashboards that dis- play real-time system metrics like CPU usage, memory consumption, and appli- cation response times. This provides insights into system health and performance bottlenecks.
• Alerting: Grafana can be configured to send alerts when certain thresholds are crossed, notifying developers or operations teams of potential issues requiring attention.
• Performance Analysis: Historical data can be visualized in Grafana to analyze performance trends and identify areas for optimization.
By integrating Grafana, PayZapp gains valuable tools for real-time system monitor- ing, proactive alerting, and performance analysis.
2.12 GIT
Git is a distributed version control system (DVCS) designed to track changes in code and coordinate work among multiple developers. It was created by Linus Torvalds in 2005 and has since become the standard for version control in software development.
15

2.12.1 Key Concepts
• Version Control: Git allows developers to keep track of changes to their code- base over time. Each change is recorded as a commit, which represents a snapshot of the project at a specific point in time.
• Repositories: A Git repository (repo) is a collection of files and directories that are tracked by Git. It contains the entire history of the project, including all commits and branches.
• Commits: A commit is a record of changes to the repository. It includes a unique identifier (commit hash), a commit message describing the changes, and the au- thor’s information. Commits are organized in a linear sequence, forming a com- mit history.
• Branches: Git allows developers to create separate branches to work on new fea- tures or bug fixes without affecting the main codebase. Branches provide isolation and allow for parallel development. The main branch, typically named ”master” or ”main”, represents the stable version of the project.
• Merging: Merging is the process of combining changes from one branch into another. Git uses merge commits to integrate changes and resolve any conflicts that may arise.
• Remote Repositories: Git enables collaboration among multiple developers by allowing them to share their repositories with others over the internet. Remote repositories serve as a central location for storing and exchanging code.
2.12.2 Basic Workflow
1. Initialize a Repository: To start using Git, a new repository needs to be ini- tialized in the project directory. This can be done by navigating to the desired directory in the command line and executing the command git init. This action creates a new Git repository, allowing version control to be applied to the project’s files and directories.
git init
2. Add and Commit Changes: After changes have been made to the files, they can be added to the staging area and committed to the repository. This process
16

involves using the git add command to add specific files or directories to the staging area, followed by the git commit command to commit the changes to the repository. This ensures that the changes are tracked and recorded in the version history of the project.
      git add .
      git commit -m "Commit message"
3. Create and Switch Branches: To work on a new feature or bug fix, a new branch needs to be created and switched to.
      git checkout -b new-feature
4. Merge Branches: Once changes are complete, they should be merged back into the main branch.
      git checkout main
      git merge new-feature
5. Push and Pull Changes: Changes should be shared with others by pushing them to a remote repository or pulling changes from a remote repository to the local machine.
      git push origin main
      git pull origin main
6. Resolve Conflicts: If conflicts arise between branches during a merge, they need to be resolved manually by editing the affected files and committing the changes.
17

CHAPTER 3 IMPLEMENTATION
This chapter discusses the implementation of the project. Due to a Non-Disclosure Agreement, actual details cannot be revealed, but the tasks will be discussed without any company-specific information.
3.1 PROBLEM STATEMENT
In the initial flow, a high volume of requests (approximately 1000 requests per sec- ond) was being directed to Service A. However, the system components responsible for processing these requests were unable to handle such a load, resulting in severe performance degradation and system failures.
Figure 3.1: Initial Flow
 18

3.2 KNOWLEDGE ACQUISITION
During the Knowledge Acquisition phase, the focus was on acquiring a comprehen- sive understanding of the domain and technologies relevant to the project. This phase served as the foundation for subsequent development activities, ensuring the necessary knowledge and skills were in place to execute the project successfully.
3.2.1 Understanding the Domain
The first step of the Knowledge Acquisition phase involved gaining a deep understand- ing of the domain, specifically the requirements and challenges associated with opti- mizing the performance and scalability of a high-traffic API system. This included researching common practices, guidelines, and strategies for handling large volumes of requests, mitigating bottlenecks, and ensuring reliable service delivery. The project aimed to improve the efficiency and responsiveness of a backend system dealing with financial transactions.
3.2.2 Exploring Technologies
Simultaneously, an exploration of the technologies and tools required to implement the desired functionality of the web application was conducted. This included a detailed investigation of event-driven architectures, message brokering systems like Kafka, and backend optimization techniques using Java and Spring Boot. Key technologies and tools examined included:
• Kafka: Utilized for managing high volumes of requests by separating the request submission from the processing logic, ensuring system responsiveness even under heavy load. In this context, Kafka facilitated the publication of events in the Atropos system, which asynchronously handled the initial flow where the Bill Payments Recon API experienced overwhelming requests.
• Consumer Configuration: Adjustment of Kafka consumer settings to optimize the simultaneous processing of records, maintaining load balance and preventing system overloads. Configuration adjustments in Atropos, such as ‘fetch.max.bytes‘, ‘max.poll.records‘, and ‘queued.max.messages.kbytes‘, were made to manage the rate of record retrieval and processing effectively.
• Spring Boot: Employed for developing backend services with efficiency and scalability. In this implementation, Spring Boot facilitated the development of a new API, which, when called by Hades, published events to Kafka topics.
19

• Grafana: Utilized for monitoring system metrics, including P99 latency. Grafana enabled the visualization of performance metrics for the APIs, aiding in the iden- tification and resolution of performance bottlenecks.
• Kibana: Deployed for log management and analysis. Kibana provided insights into log data, enabling effective system monitoring and debugging through visu- alization of data from Elasticsearch.
• Jenkins: Employed for continuous integration and deployment to ensure reli- able and automated deployment processes. Jenkins facilitated the setup of CI/CD pipelines for automating build, test, and deployment processes, ensuring seamless deployment of system updates.
Additionally, potential integrations and dependencies were evaluated to ensure com- patibility and seamless interaction between different components of the application.
3.2.3 Learning Curves and Skill Development
As part of the Knowledge Acquisition phase, areas where additional learning and skill development were required to effectively contribute to the project were identified. This involved self-study, online courses, tutorials, and hands-on experimentation to gain pro- ficiency in:
• Backend Development: Enhancing the functionality and efficiency of the back- end systems responsible for processing requests. By leveraging Java and Spring Boot, developers focus on writing optimized code that improves system perfor- mance and scalability.
• Asynchronous Processing: Implementing event-driven architectures, where the processing of requests is decoupled from the submission. By utilizing Kafka, the system can handle requests asynchronously, enhancing responsiveness and scalability.
• Performance Optimization: Employing strategies and techniques to fine-tune the performance metrics of the API system. This includes optimizing throughput (the rate at which requests are processed) and latency (the time taken for a request to receive a response), ensuring optimal system performance under varying loads.
• ConfigurationManagement:Understandingandadjustingconfigurationswithin the Kafka consumer to manage system loads efficiently. By fine-tuning settings
20

such as the maximum number of records processed simultaneously and the maxi- mum number of requests sent at once, developers can balance loads and optimize system performance.
• Monitoring and Logging: Utilizing monitoring tools like Grafana to track im- portant metrics such as request rates and response times to ensure system reli- ability and performance. Additionally, logging tools like Kibana are employed for effective log management, enabling developers to identify and troubleshoot issues promptly.
• Continuous Integration and Deployment: Utilizing automation tools like Jenk- ins to streamline the build, testing, and deployment processes. Continuous Inte- gration (CI) ensures that code changes are regularly integrated and tested, while Continuous Deployment (CD) automates the deployment of validated changes to production environments, reducing manual effort and minimizing the risk of errors.
By investing time and effort in skill development upfront, the team was better equipped to tackle the challenges of the project as it progressed.
3.3 COLLABORATION AND KNOWLEDGE SHARING
Regular meetings, brainstorming sessions, and peer reviews were conducted to ex- change insights, discuss findings, and address any questions or uncertainties. This collaborative approach fostered a supportive learning environment where expertise and experiences could be leveraged to accelerate the learning curve and collectively drive the project forward.
3.3.1 Prototyping and Proof of Concepts
The Prototyping and Proof of Concept phase is a pivotal step in the development jour- ney, especially when working on complex backend systems. This phase allows for the validation of the technical feasibility and viability of the project’s solution before committing to full-scale development. The details of how this phase unfolded are as follows:
3.3.2 Defining Scope and Objectives
The first task was to clearly define the scope and objectives of the prototype applica- tion. This involved identifying the core features and functionalities necessary to achieve
21

the project’s goals. Key components such as API endpoint consolidation, event-driven processing with Kafka, integration with monitoring tools like Grafana and Kibana, and performance optimization were outlined as essential elements to include.
3.3.3 Designing Mockups and Wireframes
With the scope and objectives in mind, the next step was to visualize the user interface and experience of the prototype application. Mockups and wireframes were created using design tools or simple pen and paper to outline the layout, navigation flow, and interaction patterns of key screens and components. These visual representations served as a blueprint for the development process and facilitated communication and alignment throughout the project.
Collaboration and knowledge sharing played a crucial role during this phase. Regu- lar meetings were held to review the progress of the prototype development, brainstorm ideas for improvements, and gather feedback from team members. Peer reviews were conducted to evaluate the effectiveness of the design mockups and wireframes, ensur- ing that they accurately represented the intended user experience and met the project objectives.
By engaging in collaborative discussions and leveraging the diverse expertise within the team, the scope and objectives of the prototype application were refined, its technical feasibility was validated through proof of concepts, and an intuitive user interface that met the needs of the target audience was designed. This collaborative approach not only accelerated the learning curve but also fostered a sense of ownership and shared responsibility for the success of the project.
3.4 SOLUTION
To address this issue, the flow was redesigned to incorporate asynchronous processing. In the new architecture, the incoming requests are directed to a newly created API. This API then publishes an event to a message broker. Subscriptions within this message broker are configured to handle the asynchronous processing of these events by invok- ing the existing Service A API.
Previously, there were multiple APIs being called directly. This has been consolidated into a single API that accepts a JSON object as input. Based on an attribute within this JSON object, the event is published to a specific topic. Consumers subscribed to these topics will then call the appropriate existing APIs asynchronously.
22

To optimize the message broker’s configuration and ensure efficient handling of the request load, the following adjustments were made:
• Max.Tasks.Count: Defines the number of consumers for a topic. This value is limited by the number of partitions, with the default being one partition and one consumer.
• Consumer.Override.Max.Poll.Records: Specifies the number of records a con- sumer fetches and processes in one poll cycle.
• Max.Requests.In.Flight: Determines how many requests a consumer sends out simultaneously, with additional fetched records held in an in-memory buffer.
By adjusting these configurations, the load was balanced, and the responsiveness of the system was improved, ensuring that it could handle the increased volume of requests without performance degradation.
Figure 3.2: Final Flow
 23

3.5 BACKEND DEVELOPMENT
Backend development serves as the backbone of the system, facilitating the manage- ment of business logic, data handling, and communication between the frontend inter- face and the database. Here is a breakdown of the different aspects of backend devel- opment in the project:
3.5.1 Setup and Configuration
The journey into backend development commences with the setup and configuration of the development environment. Java is leveraged as the core programming language and Spring Boot for rapid application development, initializing the necessary frameworks and tools required for the project. Additionally, PostgreSQL is integrated for robust database solutions and Git is used for version control to ensure efficient collaboration and code management throughout the development lifecycle.
3.5.2 Database Design and Modeling
A pivotal aspect of backend development involves designing and modeling the database schema. Utilizing Spring Data JPA in conjunction with Hibernate, database models are defined using Java entities, abstracting away the complexities of SQL queries. The database schema is meticulously designed, considering factors such as data relation- ships, normalization, and performance optimization. Furthermore, Spring Data JPA’s migration system is employed to efficiently manage database schema changes, ensur- ing seamless data integrity and consistency.
3.5.3 API Development
With the database schema established, robust APIs (Application Programming Inter- faces) are developed to expose functionality to the frontend interface and external clients. Leveraging Spring Boot’s powerful REST support, RESTful API endpoints are defined for various resources in the application. These endpoints handle incoming HTTP re- quests, perform data validation, process business logic, and return appropriate HTTP responses in JSON format. The APIs are meticulously designed to be consistent, pre- dictable, and well-documented, facilitating seamless integration with frontend compo- nents and external systems.
24

3.5.4 Business Logic Implementation
Backend development encompasses the implementation of core business logic, includ- ing data processing, validation, and manipulation. Leveraging Java’s robust ecosystem and Spring’s dependency injection, functions and methods are written to manage user input, enforce business rules, and orchestrate interactions between different components of the system. Business logic is encapsulated within Spring components, ensuring mod- ularity, reusability, and maintainability of the codebase.
3.5.5 Authentication and Authorization
Security is paramount in backend development, particularly concerning user authentica- tion and authorization. Leveraging Spring Security’s comprehensive authentication and authorization mechanisms, the application is secured against unauthorized access and malicious attacks. Authentication backends are configured, user models are defined, and access controls are implemented to ensure that only authenticated and authorized users can access protected resources. Additionally, Spring Security’s features such as CSRF protection, XSS prevention, and password hashing are leveraged to mitigate com- mon security vulnerabilities.
3.5.6 Testing and Debugging
Thorough testing and debugging are integral throughout the backend development pro- cess to identify and rectify any issues or bugs. JUnit and Mockito for Java testing and Spring’s testing framework are employed to develop unit tests, integration tests, and end-to-end tests to validate the functionality and reliability of backend components. Test-driven development (TDD) practices are employed to ensure that code changes un- dergo comprehensive testing before deployment to production. Additionally, debugging tools and techniques such as logging, error tracking, and remote debugging are utilized to diagnose and resolve issues efficiently, ensuring the stability and performance of the backend system.
3.5.7 Deployment and Scalability
Upon completion of backend development, preparation for deployment and scalability of the application is undertaken. Deployment environments are configured using Ku- bernetes for container orchestration and Jenkins for continuous integration and delivery, establishing robust CI/CD pipelines to automate the build, test, and deployment pro- cesses. Leveraging AWS for hosting the application, scalability, reliability, and avail-
25

ability are ensured. Additionally, application performance is monitored using Grafana for monitoring and alerting, usage metrics are tracked, and scaling strategies such as horizontal scaling or auto-scaling are implemented to accommodate increased traffic and workload.
3.5.8 File Processing System Configuration
To efficiently process high volumes of data, the system is configured akin to real-time
data streaming solutions like Amazon Kinesis and Apache Flink. This configuration al-
lows for the effective processing of large files by breaking down the data into individual records and processing them asynchronously. The system ensures high throughput and
low latency by leveraging Kafka for event streaming, enabling the processing of mil-
lions of records with robust error handling and retry mechanisms. By adjusting Kafka consumer configurations such as max.poll.records and max.requests.in.flight, the balance between load processing and system responsiveness is optimized, ensuring smooth and efficient data handling.
3.6 INTEGRATION AND TESTING
Integration and testing play a crucial role in ensuring the reliability, functionality, and performance of the system. This section outlines the integration of backend components and the various testing strategies employed to validate the application.
3.6.1 Integration of Backend Components
The integration of backend components involves seamlessly combining individual mod- ules, services, and APIs to form a cohesive system. Leveraging the Spring framework’s dependency injection and inversion of control, backend components such as controllers, services, repositories, and external APIs are integrated. In addition to Spring, Retrofit, a type-safe HTTP client for Android and Java, is utilized for integrating external APIs.
Retrofit simplifies the process of communicating with RESTful APIs by allowing the definition of API endpoints and request parameters as Java interfaces. It handles the conversion of JSON responses to Java objects and provides robust support for error handling and network operations. With Retrofit, APIs can be efficiently consumed, and external functionality can be incorporated into the backend system.
By adhering to established design patterns and architectural principles, such as the Model-View-Controller (MVC) pattern and the Repository pattern, loose coupling and high cohesion between components are ensured. This architectural approach facilitates easier maintenance, scalability, and extensibility of the backend system. The use of
26

Retrofit for API integration complements these principles by providing a seamless and efficient mechanism for communicating with external services.
3.6.2 Unit Testing
Unit testing is a fundamental aspect of the testing strategy, focusing on the validation of individual units or components in isolation. Using JUnit and Mockito frameworks for Java testing, unit tests are developed to verify the correctness of methods, functions, and classes within the backend components. By simulating different scenarios and edge cases, it is ensured that each unit behaves as expected and adheres to specified requirements. Unit tests are automated and executed frequently during the development process, providing rapid feedback and identifying regressions early in the lifecycle.
3.6.3 Integration Testing
Integration testing is a critical phase in the testing strategy, focusing on evaluating the interactions and dependencies between integrated backend components. It ensures that these components function cohesively as a unified system, providing confidence in the stability and interoperability of the integrated solution.
The Spring framework’s testing capabilities, specifically the MockMVC module, are leveraged for integration testing. MockMVC allows the simulation of HTTP re- quests and responses, enabling comprehensive testing of controllers and their interac- tions with other components. Additionally, the REST Assured library, which provides a fluent API for testing RESTful APIs, is utilized to validate the communication between backend services and external dependencies.
Integration tests encompass a wide range of scenarios, including end-to-end user journeys, error handling, and data flow validation. By simulating API requests and re- sponses, the correctness of data transmission, authentication mechanisms, and response formats is verified. This ensures that the system behaves as expected under various conditions and gracefully handles errors and edge cases.
In summary, integration testing plays a crucial role in validating the interoperability and functionality of integrated backend components. By leveraging MockMVC and REST Assured, comprehensive testing of the communication between components is conducted, ensuring the reliability and robustness of the system.
3.6.4 Performance Testing
Performance testing is essential for evaluating system responsiveness, scalability, and resource utilization, particularly in handling individual records from uploaded files and
27

making API calls for each record. The approach, resembling real-time data streaming systems like Amazon Kinesis or Apache Flink, focuses on measuring the latency of processing individual records, especially the 99th percentile (P99) requests. This metric provides insight into typical latency, helping to understand system performance under normal conditions.
To conduct performance testing, file uploads with varying record counts are sim- ulated, and the time taken to process each record is measured. Real-time monitoring and logging are employed to capture and analyze API call latency for individual record processing. By adjusting the load and observing system response, performance bottle- necks, scalability constraints, or areas needing optimization are identified.
The performance testing strategy includes the following key components:
• Request Per Second (RPS) Measurement: The number of requests processed by the system per second is tracked. This metric helps in understanding the sys- tem’s throughput and its ability to handle concurrent requests. By increasing the number of simulated file uploads and monitoring RPS, the system’s maximum capacity and any throughput limitations can be determined.
• Latency Analysis: In addition to measuring the average latency, the focus is on the P99 latency, which represents the time within which 99% of the requests are processed. This provides a more comprehensive view of the system’s per- formance, highlighting any outliers that may affect the user experience. Other latency percentiles (e.g., P90, P95) are also monitored to gain a broader under- standing of system performance.
• Resource Utilization Monitoring: System resources such as CPU, memory, and disk usage are continuously monitored during performance testing. This helps in identifying any resource bottlenecks that may impact the system’s ability to handle high loads. By correlating resource utilization with performance metrics, areas requiring optimization can be pinpointed.
• Scalability Testing: The system’s ability to scale horizontally and vertically by adding more processing nodes or increasing the capacity of existing nodes is eval- uated. This involves testing the system under varying loads to ensure it can handle increased traffic without degradation in performance.
• Error Rate Tracking: Monitoring the error rate during performance testing is crucial for identifying issues related to request handling. The number of failed requests is tracked, and the root causes are analyzed to improve system reliability and robustness.
28

• Real-Time Monitoring and Logging: Tools such as Grafana and Kibana are utilized to set up dashboards for visualizing key performance metrics in real-time. This allows for the quick identification and addressing of performance issues as they arise. Detailed logs help trace the flow of individual requests and diagnose problems effectively.
• Iterative Optimization: Performance testing is an ongoing process conducted throughout the development lifecycle. By iteratively testing and optimizing the system, it is ensured that it meets the required performance criteria and can handle expected user traffic. This approach allows for incremental improvements and validation against real-world scenarios.
The iterative performance testing process occurs throughout development and be- fore production deployment, ensuring the system meets performance criteria and can handle expected user traffic. Focusing on individual record processing latency, request per second, and other key performance metrics provides valuable insights for optimiz- ing system performance and enhancing the user experience. This comprehensive ap- proach ensures that the web application is robust, scalable, and capable of delivering a high-quality user experience even under heavy load conditions.
3.6.5 User Acceptance Testing (UAT)
Overview
User Acceptance Testing (UAT) is a critical phase in the software development lifecycle, designed to verify the application’s functionality, usability, and alignment with user requirements by conducting real-world testing with end-users or stakeholders. This phase ensures that the application meets the business objectives and user expectations before it is deployed to the production environment.
UAT Environment
UAT is conducted in a dedicated zone or environment that closely mimics the produc- tion environment. This UAT environment is configured to replicate production settings as accurately as possible, ensuring that any issues identified during testing are likely to manifest in the production environment as well. This environment includes the same server configurations, database settings, and network conditions to provide a realistic testing ground for the application.
29

UAT Process
The UAT process involves several key steps to ensure thorough testing and validation:
• Collaborative Planning: Close collaboration with stakeholders outlines test sce- narios, acceptance criteria, and user stories tailored for UAT. This collaborative approach ensures the testing aligns with user expectations and business require- ments.
• Manual Testing: Testers use manual testing to evaluate the application’s fea- tures, workflows, and user interfaces. They follow the predefined test scenarios and acceptance criteria to systematically test the application, focusing on func- tionality, usability, and overall user experience.
• Feedback and Issue Tracking: Testers provide valuable feedback on usability, accessibility, and any encountered issues. All feedback and identified issues are meticulously documented and tracked using issue-tracking tools. This feedback is critical for identifying areas of improvement and ensuring that the application meets user expectations.
• Issue Resolution: The development team addresses the identified issues and in- corporates the feedback into the application. This iterative testing, feedback, and issue resolution process continues until the application is deemed ready for final deployment.
• Final Review and Approval: Once all identified issues have been resolved and the application has been refined based on user feedback, a final review is con- ducted. Stakeholders review the application to ensure that it aligns with the out- lined acceptance criteria and business objectives. Upon approval, the application is prepared for production deployment.
UAT Application
For specific applications like the PayZapp app, UAT is crucial in ensuring seamless functionality and user experience. The UAT environment for PayZapp is set up to sim- ulate real-world usage scenarios as closely as possible. Any changes or updates to the PayZapp app are first deployed to the UAT environment, where comprehensive testing is conducted. This includes:
• Transaction Testing: Verifying that all transaction-related functionalities work correctly, including payment processing, refunds, and transaction history.
30

• Security Testing: Ensuring that security features such as encryption, authentica- tion, and authorization function correctly to protect user data.
• PerformanceTesting:Assessingtheapp’sperformanceundervariousconditions to ensure it can handle expected user loads without degradation in performance.
• User Interface Testing: Checking that the user interface is intuitive and user- friendly and that all elements are displayed correctly on different devices and screen sizes.
• Integration Testing: Ensuring that the app integrates seamlessly with other sys- tems and services, such as banking APIs, third-party payment gateways, and no- tification services.
The results of UAT for the PayZapp app are meticulously reviewed, and any iden- tified issues are addressed promptly. This ensures that when changes are eventually deployed to production, they are robust, secure, and provide a seamless user experi- ence.
Conducting thorough UAT ensures that the applications not only meet the techni- cal requirements but also deliver a superior user experience, ultimately enhancing user satisfaction and achieving business goals.
3.7 DEPLOYMENT AND DOCUMENTATION
Deployment and documentation are critical phases in the development lifecycle, ensur- ing that the web application is successfully deployed to production environments and that comprehensive documentation is provided to support its usage, maintenance, and future development.
3.7.1 Deployment Process
The deployment process involves preparing the web application for release and de- ploying it to production environments where it can be accessed by users. This process typically includes the following steps:
• EnvironmentConfiguration:Productionenvironments,includingservers,databases, and networking infrastructure, are configured to host the web application. Secu-
rity measures such as firewalls, SSL certificates, and access controls are set up to protect sensitive data and ensure compliance with security standards.
31

• Build and Packaging: The application code, assets, and dependencies are pack- aged into deployable artifacts such as Docker containers or deployment packages. Build optimizations and asset minification are performed to improve performance and reduce load times.
• Continuous Integration and Deployment (CI/CD): CI/CD pipelines are set up to automate the build, test, and deployment processes. Tools such as Jenkins, GitLab CI/CD, or GitHub Actions are utilized to trigger automated builds, run tests, and deploy updates to production environments seamlessly.
• Deployment Strategy: An appropriate deployment strategy, such as blue-green deployments, canary deployments, or rolling updates, is chosen to minimize down- time and ensure zero-downtime deployments. Deployment progress is monitored, and changes are rolled back if necessary to mitigate any issues or errors.
• Change Management: A change management ticket is created to document the proposed changes, including the scope, impact, and rollback plan. Necessary ap- provals from stakeholders and change management boards are obtained to ensure that the deployment aligns with organizational policies and procedures.
• Tagging and Deployment: The application is built, and a version tag is created to uniquely identify the release. Site Reliability Engineers (SREs) collaborate to deploy the tagged version to the production environment, ensuring that deploy- ment processes follow best practices and organizational standards.
• Service Synchronization: The service synchronization process is ensured to align the new deployment with existing services. This includes updating ser- vice discovery mechanisms, reconfiguring load balancers, and validating that all dependent services are correctly synchronized with the new deployment.
3.7.2 Documentation
Comprehensive documentation is essential for guiding users, administrators, and de- velopers in understanding and utilizing the web application effectively. Documentation should cover various aspects of the application, including its architecture, functionality, usage, configuration, and troubleshooting. Key components of documentation include:
• InstallationGuide:Step-by-stepinstructionsareprovidedforinstallingandcon- figuring the web application in different environments, including development, staging, and production. Prerequisites, dependencies, and configuration settings required for successful installation are included.
32

3.8
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
User Manual: User manuals or user guides are created to explain how to use the web application’s features and functionalities. Screenshots, examples, and best practices are included to help users navigate the application and accomplish common tasks.
Administrator Guide: Administrative tasks such as user management, config- uration settings, and system maintenance procedures are documented. Guidance is provided on managing user accounts, monitoring system health, and trou- bleshooting common issues.
API Documentation: If the web application exposes APIs for integration with external systems, comprehensive API documentation is provided that describes endpoints, request/response formats, authentication mechanisms, and usage ex- amples. Tools such as Swagger or OpenAPI are used to generate interactive API documentation.
ReleaseNotes:Releasenotesorchangelogsaremaintainedtodocumentchanges, enhancements, and bug fixes introduced in each version of the web application. Information about new features, improvements, and any breaking changes that may affect users or developers is included.
Troubleshooting Guide: A troubleshooting guide is compiled to outline com- mon issues, error messages, and resolutions encountered when using the web application. Troubleshooting steps, diagnostic tools, and recommended solutions for resolving problems efficiently are provided.
Lucidchart Diagrams: Lucidchart is utilized to create visual diagrams repre- senting the application’s architecture, data flow, and process workflows. These diagrams aid in understanding complex structures and interactions within the sys- tem, providing a clear visual representation of how different components are in- terconnected.
Swimlane Diagrams: Swimlane diagrams are developed to map out processes, tasks, and responsibilities across different actors or components in the system. These diagrams help clarify the sequence of operations and the roles of various elements, enhancing clarity and ensuring efficient process management.
BUG FIXES
Bug fixes are an integral part of the software development lifecycle, ensuring that issues and defects identified during testing or after deployment are addressed promptly and
33

effectively. In this phase, the focus is on identifying, prioritizing, and resolving bugs to improve the reliability, performance, and user experience of the web application.
3.8.1 Bug Identification and Prioritization
The bug fixing process begins with identifying and documenting bugs reported by users, testers, or detected through automated testing processes. Bugs may manifest as func- tional issues, performance bottlenecks, security vulnerabilities, or compatibility prob- lems across different platforms or devices. Once identified, bugs are triaged and prior- itized based on their severity, impact on user experience, and business impact. Critical bugs that affect core functionality or security are prioritized for immediate resolution, while minor bugs may be scheduled for future releases or addressed as part of regular maintenance cycles.
3.8.2 Root Cause Analysis
Once bugs are prioritized, the next step is to perform root cause analysis to under- stand the underlying reasons for their occurrence. This involves investigating the source code, reviewing logs and error messages, and reproducing the issue in a controlled en- vironment. By identifying the root cause of bugs, insights are gained into the factors contributing to their occurrence, enabling the implementation of effective solutions to prevent similar issues from reoccurring in the future.
3.8.3 Fix Implementation
After identifying the root cause, fixes are implemented to address the bugs. This may involve modifying source code, updating configurations, or applying patches to third- party dependencies. Care is taken to ensure that fixes are implemented correctly and do not introduce new issues or regressions in the application.
3.8.4 Testing and Validation
Once fixes are implemented, comprehensive testing is conducted to validate their effec- tiveness and verify that the bugs have been resolved satisfactorily. Unit tests, integration tests, and regression tests are executed to ensure that the fixes do not introduce new is- sues or regressions in the application. Test cases are designed to cover the specific scenarios and conditions associated with each bug, ensuring that fixes are verified un- der relevant use cases and edge cases. User acceptance testing may also be conducted to validate fixes from a user perspective and ensure that they meet user expectations and requirements.
34

3.8.5 Release and Monitoring
Once fixes are validated, they are incorporated into the next release of the web appli- cation. Release notes or changelogs are updated to document the fixes included in the release, providing transparency and accountability to users and stakeholders. After re- lease, ongoing monitoring and feedback mechanisms are established to track the effec- tiveness of fixes in production environments and identify any new issues or regressions that may arise. Continuous monitoring allows for proactive detection and resolution of issues, ensuring the stability and reliability of the web application over time.
35

CHAPTER 4 CONCLUSION
This project successfully addressed the challenges of developing and optimizing a high- traffic API system for financial transactions. Comprehensive knowledge acquisition and targeted skill development established a solid foundation for the backend architecture, integrating robust technologies such as Kafka, Spring Boot, and Jenkins. This approach facilitated the handling of large volumes of requests and ensured system responsiveness and reliability, crucial for financial applications.
The implementation phase underscored the importance of meticulous backend develop- ment, including database design, API creation, and business logic integration. Through rigorous testing strategies—spanning unit, integration, performance, and user accep- tance testing—the system’s functionality and performance were validated, ensuring it met stringent quality standards. Security measures were rigorously applied to protect sensitive financial data, reinforcing the system’s reliability and user trust.
The deployment process, supported by CI/CD pipelines and Kubernetes, ensured seam- less and scalable production releases. Comprehensive documentation provided a vital resource for users and administrators, enhancing the system’s usability and maintain- ability. The iterative approach to bug fixing and continuous monitoring highlighted a commitment to long-term stability and performance. This project exemplifies a holistic and collaborative methodology in developing high-traffic API systems, setting a bench- mark for future projects in similar domains.
36

BIBLIOGRAPHY
[1] Oracle. (2023). Java Platform, Standard Edition Documentation. Available at:
   https://docs.oracle.com/en/java/
[2] Pivotal Software, Inc. (2023). Spring Framework Documentation. Available at:
   https://spring.io/projects/spring-framework
[3] Pivotal Software, Inc. (2023). Spring Boot Reference Guide. Available
at: https://docs.spring.io/spring-boot/docs/current/ reference/htmlsingle/
[4] PostgreSQL Global Development Group. (2023). PostgreSQL 14 Documentation. Available at: https://www.postgresql.org/docs/14/
[5] Apache Software Foundation. (2023). Apache Kafka Documentation. Available at:
   https://kafka.apache.org/documentation/
[6] Jenkins Project. (2023). Jenkins User Documentation. Available at: https:// www.jenkins.io/doc/
[7] Grafana Labs. (2023). Grafana Documentation. Available at: https:// grafana.com/docs/
[8] Elastic. (2023). Kibana Guide [7.15]. Available at: https://www.elastic. co/guide/en/kibana/current/index.html
[9] Amazon Web Services, Inc. (2023). AWS Documentation. Available at: https: //docs.aws.amazon.com/
[10] Apache Software Foundation. (2023). Apache Flink Documentation. Available at:
   https://flink.apache.org/documentation.html
[11] Amazon Web Services, Inc. (2023). Amazon Kinesis Documentation. Available at: https://docs.aws.amazon.com/kinesis/
37
